If you're not met trash from person, I bet you're feeling some some promo right now from meeting trash in person cares about that
I just the X logo. I just I just don't like it. I know I need to find the right way to articulate it. It conveys a certain vibe to me that's very familiar.
And you know, it reminds me of like high school era. Maybe I feel like stuff looked like that during like the 2000s. Yeah, the early 2000s.
Yeah. Yeah. The first decade. Yeah. And I'm like, just something about it feels off. I've heard people complain about it and I guess I don't have any feelings about it.
I do miss the bird and the colors. Like I miss Twitter being kind of like symbolically and physically light. Yeah. And it does feel a little heavy with the X and the black and the monochrome.
So I don't like that part of it. But I guess I don't like think the X itself is good or bad logo.
I think to me, it's the X plus that like grungy background that the icon has. And that reminds me of like T shirts we made in high school or something or like, okay, I do know what you're talking about.
Yeah. Or it kind of feels like what like luxury or like premium stuff look like back. I don't know. Something about it just feels outdated or like corny almost. Yeah. And I don't, I don't even mean on that.
Where does that show up though? Is it actually on the icon or is it just is it Twitter.com that I say it's on the icon. I just saw it when I opened up the broadcast thing.
It was like stream on X and I had that like that does also do is like kind of gold ish kind of background in a few places and that also reminds me of the 2000s.
Yeah. Yeah. But like we've talked about before, all this stuff is just so subjective. I'm sure like given enough time, I might like be into that aesthetic again if it like if I'm conditioned in the right way.
Yeah, it's interesting. I just saw, I think levels tweeted about stripe. It was like you saying that it's a bad sign. Like it's a red flag.
I think he said it on a podcast actually, but it came up on Twitter. It's a bad sign. If you're MVP is like polished and looks nice and somebody was like, uh oh, and they like linked a screenshot of stripe because I had gradients.
He said something about gradients. Like if you have all these nice gradients. Anyway, he quote tweeted that and was like, yeah, exactly look at stripes MVP and it's like this awful looking 1990s website because it was probably made in the 90s.
And then it hit me this conversation we've had before, which is like, is it actually awful looking? Or is it just that design continues to evolve? So everything from 10 years ago is going to look bad to us.
And 10 years from now, everything now is going to look bad. Like, is there any real truth when it comes to design? We've had this conversation. We don't have to have to get it.
Yeah, it's a classic spiral thing. Like we're definitely like getting with the upward spiral or whatever. Like we're growing and objective dimensions, but we're also circling back to like ideas at the same time.
Mm hmm. Yeah. Did you see? Okay. Speaking of design. Did you see the linear thing that I quote tweeted? So he physically poured oil on an iPad and they filmed it with a camera?
Yeah. So for context, then you're launched a new feature yesterday and they had this cool like animation for it. It was the logo and it had like this warping like refraction effect going over it.
I didn't think too much of it. Actually, when I saw it, I like wasn't actually that impressed by it. I was like, okay, this looks cool, but I thought it looked a little bit different from other stuff.
I didn't stick out. Then I see a tweet from the guy that made it and he was like, oh, yeah, this was made by I just filmed myself pouring canola oil on my daughter's iPad.
Just blows my mind. Yeah. I'm like, that is. And he was told like, yeah, he was told like two days ago that they needed this. So he came up with this like on the spot too.
So I guess I'm trying to understand like filming with a good camera. How do they then take that into the digital realm in like a high fidelity way?
So it was an iPad image of their logo and he poured oil across it.
I've seen a few people do this now. Do you see the Vercel preview of their new website?
Is this the one where you can do the up, down, up, down, right, left, BA thing? I didn't know that was a thing.
Yeah, yeah. I saw Guillermo tweeted that and it unlocks like you can change colors and stuff. You can do all kinds of weird changes to the site.
Oh, that is cool. I got to try it. I got to say with my Vimeo first because that always triggers.
I do too. Yeah. I'm like, it doesn't work. I about tweeted something like, I can't get it to work. And I realized, oh, that's the Vimeo command bar coming up.
Okay. So, you know, I was working on a command K bar, like the one for a console. Yeah.
And I kept hitting escape and it wouldn't close. I did escape twice. I spent so long debugging this and it was a good Vimeo thing.
But anyway, yeah. So you just just don't use Vimeo anymore.
No, no, no, definitely use Vimeo. Just disable it for things that it's probably wrong. It's like DNS. It's probably good.
Yeah. Can we go back to the style thing before we get into the topic of today? Yeah. Yeah.
What pants? Do you wear pants that are tight on your ankle or like bag? Yes, I do. I wear like jogger type pants and I've been doing that for a long time.
Me too. It came around, I don't know, five, ten years ago. You know, like when we were in high school, I'm a little older than you, but sometime growing up, you remember when like the flared out 70s look like the bootleg pants.
Stuff was just baggy back then in general. Yeah. But there was like the extreme bell bottom. Yeah. Yeah. I was never into that. I've seen, I remember seeing that, but I always found it kind of weird.
That was like my high school, like formative years. That's what everybody wore. Okay. And then whenever the tight around the ankle came out and became like the thing everybody did, I have stuck with that and I will never change ever ever.
Like it feels so much better to me to have like a, I don't know, tight clean pants against my shoe situation. Me too.
And I think like that's how I know I perceive my dad is like, why is his fashion 30 years old all the time? Yeah.
It's because you find the thing you like and then you're never going to change again. And I saw, we went to like a gap kids to get some stuff for the boys.
And the style now is like these giant baggy pants. Have you seen this? No, is it back? Oh, my God. I'm not going back. I'm stuck.
Do you find it? I know it. If you're like, do you find yourself being a note if you see your kids wearing it? Well, they don't. I mean, we didn't get any baggy pants.
But like theoretically, if they did, yeah, I would find that annoying. I think I would be like, Oh, that looks so bad. Yeah. I think I just, I've decided what objectively looks good now forever.
I know style is constantly changing fashion is changing. So yeah, I guess it will be annoying. AJ told me that there was some research showing that people's music tastes like really codify at a certain age and just kind of freeze.
I believe that that's their life. Yeah. Yeah. And I wonder if that just applies to things more broadly. It explains everything. Like, you always wonder like, sometimes you hear older people as in a certain music.
I'm like, how do you enjoy that? Like, that just seems so, it doesn't even seem like music to me, but how did a lot of people like the Eagles?
I don't get it. I don't. Yeah. But I guess that's going to be us. But it's funny to imagine it with the music that I grew up listening to. Like, it's funny to imagine the music music we listen to being like classics.
Yeah. Like you're kind of classic channel and it's like Kanye, like, what the... Is that really going to happen?
All these. Yeah. All these. Okay. Let's jump in. We're going to talk about the next year's stuff, right? I got to say, before we get into it, I know I said this few episodes ago.
This was how we started. Our first, very first episode of this podcast was next year's comp recap, right? So it's been one year.
Wow. And next year's comp is today. I know. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I just saw these tweets where people asked if we were going to react to next year's comp.
When is next? I know it's today, but what time is it like, I think it's 10 Pacific, I think. Oh, is it five hours long? Okay. Here's the thing. I don't. I think it's, I personally, I'm not a big talks person. I know you aren't either. So I don't think it's going to be that interesting. I don't want to react to it for five hours. Okay.
Okay. But if there's like a keynote or like whatever, they're from Versailles messages. Oh, like the Guillermo keynote. That's probably the first thing. Yeah. I would enjoy roasting that probably. That would be fun. I don't know if I can schedule. Not like I just had something Casey needed for me today.
So I may not be able to. But it's saddens me because of all of the things we just mentioned. Yeah.
It's, it's, this is like one year in the making. Look at us. I wish we had made it to 100 episodes in a year. How many would that be? That'd be like two weeks? We do. Yeah, we took a break. We do two a week, but we didn't start that till. Yeah. Yeah. More recently. Yeah.
I don't know. One year, 100 episodes. That just sounds cool. Two years, 100 episodes will sound cool. 68. We're one off. Are you kidding me? Oh, I just put 38 is the title. Oops. That's we've done more than that.
Oh, we're one off. Despite being 68 episodes in, you're putting in the wrong title. I still haven't gotten your audio, right? Yeah. We'll never figure it out.
We're probably better than last year because last year was when you kept putting our faces over, over the video.
There's a little turk say something about that. It's true. That was a, that was good.
I think Teige came on with this too, and he didn't know anything about next year. That's right. That's funny.
Okay. So we're going to, we're going to read Kent's article. Yes. Yesterday, the episode, right? Can't release an article called Why I Won't Use Next.js.
The spiciest possible title that could ever be. It's not just kidding. Yeah. So obviously in the position that he's in teaching people how to build web applications.
A question he gets a lot is why is yourself not built around next year's given you do anything in web you're going to come across next year's really quickly.
So imagine you get this question a lot and he wrote it up so he could just point to it. It's kind of like how I get the question of help me use Prisma in serverless like I get.
That's like my equivalent. I should probably write an article like this. Why I won't use Prisma.
You shouldn't be there. My article will be way angrier than Kent's is so. No, this is a really good article. I actually did read it.
Yeah, I think I saw I didn't see him announce or like posted on Twitter. I think I saw your quote tweet was how I saw it.
And you said nice things. Yeah. I read it as a reasonable article. I think resonated a lot.
And I felt those same nice things. Yeah. So are we going to, how do you want to do this? You want to just kind of like go through point by point? Yeah.
This is the first for us. This is new. Like I know we've never done before. Yeah, it feels good. I mean, we just got started, but I like it already.
Okay. Just if it is intro, you got new projects to work on or existing project. You've motivated upgrade.
There are a lot of modern frameworks to choose from. You know, if you're not facing the choice right now, you may be trying to decide which framework to invest in the future to make yourself more marketable and productive in the future.
This is actually something that from someone that builds dev tools. It's kind of interesting because the traditional startup thinks about things in terms of sales cycles.
Like going from someone hearing about your product to them paying for your product.
How long does that take? I think there's a similar thing in dev tools where someone hears about your framework.
When do they first try it? And when do they first put into production?
These are super long, you know, cycles, right? Like, yeah.
The average person unless they're like, you know, a gun code in your engineer isn't going to like rewrite their whole app, just because they heard about a framework.
Once you probably have to have someone hear about it, then like in six months, you get a chance to try it.
Then maybe a year later, they move to a different job and they're starting a new project, then they might actually use it.
So yeah, as a good dev tools person, that's very tricky because I have to constantly be in the air.
So that eventually they give it a shot.
Yeah, kind of just say that it's so hard for me to think or understand any of this context that you guys deal with because I do the consumer stuff.
And we get people that do one query and then they sign up for Stammies Plus.
So not that long.
That sounds nice.
Well, it's not very much money either.
But like, even there, like they probably have to hear about Stammies a few times before they went and tried it.
Yeah, maybe they have to see a few tweets and then they're finally like, "What is this thing?" and then they end up on the website.
Yeah, probably.
It's definitely tighter.
Still faster than, yeah, what you're describing.
But it makes sense.
Like when I think of from a dev perspective, like we don't just jump into new things all the time.
Like it's only every, yeah, like you said, it might be six months before we introduce some new tool into our world.
Yeah, I think it's something that people like, I think dev tool companies, and they're understanding more, but it's very different than it's almost like selling a product that's a complete commodity.
It's like purely based off of brand.
Like all those companies that do like brand advertising and they constantly have billboards up and they constantly have commercials.
And you're like, "What is this commercial even for?"
That car company.
Brand awareness.
Things like that.
Yeah.
It's very similar.
So Kent mentions he's been using remakes in 2020. He loved it so much. He joined the team for 10 months.
And I think we will remember this when remakes with its own company before they got acquired.
Kent joined and was working on it.
It's a full sack web framework.
The people are familiar with it.
And Kent is using it as like the cornerstone of his new course, epicweb.dev.
Which Kent, if you're still here, I still so badly want to dig in.
There's like a queue of things that I want to dig into.
And I've just been in this like months long rewrite that has meant not touching anything new.
But I still do want to play with epicweb stuff or the epic stack, I guess.
And maybe I want to take your course too.
Maybe I will.
I buy a lot of courses.
I don't take them all.
I do buy them.
I want to buy like one section from it.
Like I'm very curious about the off section because it looks very thorough and in depth and a few people have been like a few people that are working off of it.
Like this is very comprehensive and I want to round out my knowledge.
I don't want to buy the whole thing.
Kent, can I buy it in piecemeal?
I get just the odd section.
All the cart.
Maybe I'll get the whole thing to you.
We'll see.
We'll see how the subject goes.
So he phrased this in an interesting way, which I thought was funny.
He says, "As next JS is a very popular alternative to remix."
Which is an interesting way to phrase that.
That's nice.
Yeah.
I didn't catch that.
I didn't interpret it that way.
You might interpret things in the worst possible way, knowing you.
No, I like it because you can frame it in either direction.
Yeah.
It's kind of a power move if you interpret it a certain way.
Appreciate that.
I mean, he has to like load this with a bunch of disclaimers because people get very upset
with any kind of opinionated article like this.
Just if it is, whatever you use is probably fine.
By the way, what was also really funny was when Kent posted this, there were so many
replies like immediately with like gotchas that were just addressed in the article.
Like people out of themselves.
They didn't read it.
They were like, "Your site is built on next JS.
Ha, gotcha."
He literally talks about it a bunch of times in here.
Oh, I saw it.
Yeah.
He hired a team to make you his website and I think that there's a lot of that.
By the way, Kent, if you're here, I know Kent was here.
I love that you hired to make your website because of course you did because that's just
smart.
Yeah.
You've got time to make the website.
You've got to make the stuff.
Sorry, go ahead.
And they're the most competent and actually that's what they have the most experience in.
So, yeah, it makes sense to do.
And that's this point here.
Your skill at using the tool to accomplish the outcome is more important than the tool itself.
So, obviously, a million disclaimers.
So, whatever you use is probably fine.
Bolded there.
That line.
And I stopped and thought for a bit and realized I'm trying to build stuff with technology that
I don't know very well.
Not the Astro stuff.
We're loving Astro.
But I thought I'm going to just start using Solid because you use Solid.
You're so good at Solid.
You know what you're doing.
And I realized if I'm starting a new project, there's some ideas I had for a new project
that we've talked about.
And I thought, "Should I actually just make it with Next.js?
Because I actually know how to do stuff with React.
And I don't know what I'm doing with Solid."
Wait, but do you know Next.js anymore?
Like the newest version of Next.js?
I mean, probably not because it changes like crazy.
But this line did make me feel like I've been chasing something and losing all of my skill.
Or abandoning all the things I understand really well.
React.
React. Next 12 or whatever it was when I used it.
Yeah.
What are they on now?
15?
I don't know.
Okay, now you're making me second guess again.
I just got to learn Solid, I guess.
Whatever.
Fine.
No, no.
Okay.
It's definitely a valid thing because I was thinking about this yesterday.
So I've been doing Solid for two years.
You might have seen that thread I posted.
I finally got to a place where I'm like, "Okay.
It feels very complete.
All the libraries I need are there.
It all works together.
It's great."
And I had the thought, "Oh, this is probably the feeling that people that use like Laravel
or something feel because all this stuff is just there and it works nicely together."
And we finally got in there the beginning of that with Solid.
And it's after me spending years understanding it well.
Yeah.
And it feels great to be there.
And I'm unlikely to move at this point.
Because I'm at a point in my career where I'm not absorbing a bunch of stuff.
You're never going back to bell bums.
You're stuck with the tight jeans.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So yeah.
Like I'm like, "Okay.
This is what, as someone, it's always been adopting whatever.
I can early adopt there.
I never get that feeling of, "Wow.
My tools do everything I need them to do."
And I'm finally starting to get that.
Yep.
So I can appreciate that.
Can't believe you haven't been using Solid for 10 years.
Everything you've done in your career has been for 10 years.
What's a max?
I think Solid's maybe like seven years old now, six or seven years old.
Believe it or not.
Oh, is it really?
Oh, I figured you were.
Yeah.
I mean, in terms of like the first commitment when Ryan first started working on it.
Wow.
So again, disclaimers, which unfortunately we all have to stack stuff with disclaimers.
No matter how many disclaimers we put, we're still going to get a reply.
It's annoying.
Yep.
Anyway, the web platform.
So a big thing that remix and Kent and all those people are about is taking advantage of the
web platform as much as possible, using standards, learning them well, and building things that
help you use them better.
Mm-hmm.
Main reason is if you learn those things well, they transfer.
You know, the browser is going to be the browser, whatever framework's changed.
Certain things that are standard are going to continue to exist.
They're all going to be backwards compatible, all kinds of stuff.
And he brings up the example of enzyme, which is a testing library, if I remember.
It is a wrapper over a bunch of this is one of my favorite parts of the whole article, a
bunch of overly helpful danger.
Dangerous.
Yeah.
I would say that instead of wrapping platform API, assessing library exposed platform APIs.
Yeah, exactly.
It's not like building abstractions that prevent you from using or learning the platform API
directly, and how that that's not like a great long-term approach, because things shift.
Stuff isn't transferable.
I totally agree with this.
And the big thing that I say all the time with SST is we're not trying to save you from
learning AWS.
Our goal isn't to be like, you never need to learn it.
We're going to protect you from it.
Our goal is we want to expose it to you in a way that's not overwhelming.
And over time, I genuinely want you to be an expert at AWS.
And this is kind of the exact same idea.
I'm tracking.
Did you want me to say something?
I don't know.
Did you have a reaction?
Oh, no.
This feels like school or something all of a sudden.
Yeah, Adam.
What did you think of this?
I was drifting off just a little bit.
You called me out.
What did you think of this?
No, I thought it was great.
I don't do tests so much.
I'm not the one who tested it.
So the specific example kind of went over my head.
But the idea, I get the idea.
Yeah.
And I think it like I kind of like know the differences there between remix and next.
And kind of where he's getting at.
Yeah.
I think this is like a tough thing because you can always make something look shinier and
cooler by doing the opposite of this.
And when you're like in like a competitive space of the framework space when you're reaching
out to people and you're trying to get people excited.
Yeah.
Like you're tempted to do those things.
They're very short term because long term like Kent points out.
These things are just very brittle.
Yep.
But it's easy to get sucked into that.
But remix is more focused on like he says, exposing APIs as opposed to wrapping APIs.
And you can kind of imagine how like it's, it's very easy for me to.
I think a good thing that I try to look at, especially when using tools is.
Can I imagine how this works under the hood?
Like, is it easy for me to understand what's going on?
Yeah.
If it's not, I get kind of worried.
And there's probably is like a AWS and like generally infrastructure kind of web dev nerd.
Uh, next JS is the thing that gives me the biggest feeling like that where I don't know
what it is doing under the hood.
Yeah.
It's the most, it's the furthest I feel away from my infrastructure.
It's like thinking about an extra deployment.
Yeah.
And I think he goes into that.
Like just the difficulties of deploying next and the incentives and all of that.
Yeah.
I do.
I feel like I should say, it's the disclaimers.
I, I, we just said in the last episode that like, or I said at least, I feel like I've,
I've been too harsh on Vercel and picked on them for the wrong reasons, maybe.
I think if there is a right reason to pick on Vercel and next JS, it's the deployment model.
I think that's the thing.
It just, it bothers me how many times they've come back and they're like, no, it's easy.
And the gas lighting on that is just, it's really annoying.
Maybe they genuinely believe it's easy, but it's not.
So like the rest world can, can confirm that.
It's not easy to deploy next year.
Yeah.
But all the other things I pick on them for, I feel bad.
And I take those back.
No, it's okay.
You can do that.
It's like, it's just like a David Goliath situation.
It's like, it's the punching up.
It's really easy to punch up.
Yeah.
Because yeah, when somebody's huge and, and there's a lot of things that we've talked about
in this episode, I want going tomorrow.
I mean, skills that I can use wherever I develop for the web.
And it's a big thing.
Like, is your framework, are you getting better at general skills by using your framework?
I think it's, it's like tailwind and CSS.
Like tailwind makes you better at CSS.
Oh, you don't use tailwind.
Never mind.
No, I agree.
Do you not see my tweet yesterday?
I was like, I don't use tailwind, but they're like in the top three companies.
I admire the most.
Oh, yeah.
Tailwind Labs is a company.
Sure.
But you understand like enough about tailwind to know that like, yeah, no, I don't think
it's an option.
My little experience using tailwind has taught me a lot about CSS.
Yeah.
And that's how I think any framework should be.
Exactly.
Like you, you pick up on things that you didn't know CSS could do because just because of tailwind
docs were so good and you discovered things in there.
Yep.
Okay.
Next part, independent.
So this was great.
This was a great little surprise because Kent had a whole section about open next, which
is our project.
To be honest, when I saw this, I got to this section and I saw open next.
I was like, oh, that's why DAX tweeted it.
No, that's right.
Well, well, it's okay.
That was a funny thing.
I saw the article.
I posted it in my team chat without even reading it.
That was like, just by relevant and I started reading it and I was like, oh, look, there's
a section on us, but I didn't see that.
Plus a surprise.
Yeah.
But yes, this is why we tweeted because I mentioned open this.
So this is a, I joked in our team chat that this is, this point is like, we're cells greatest
fear.
I mean, I'm being dramatic.
When, when we were at least open next, they were fairly upset with us for calling it open
next.
Yeah.
Because of what the name implies.
And the point he's making is exactly that it's like people point to the existence of open
next to argue that the framework is not very independent because if it was, why does open
next exist and why isn't there open remix or open, Astro or open, whatever?
Yep.
So just kind of the context.
So the project open next, it's run by our community.
They work on figuring out how best to deploy or sell to a serverless environment.
Um, so taking, wait, did I say, or so no, the best deploy, next, yes, yes, yes, there,
it's not public info on how best to deploy this stuff.
You have to have a really deep understanding of both infrastructure.
So like understanding what's possible.
And also how next, yes, worked on the hood, all little features, all little details to
like match these two things together.
What infrastructure do we actually need?
This isn't public information.
It's not documented.
It's not shared.
It's not an open effort.
It's not collaborative.
This is like a reverse engineering effort where with every release, they look to see
how it works and figure out what we need to change on our end.
Very tedious work.
Yep.
Uh, amazing that the community like spends the time to do that.
It builds up tools.
They've done all this stuff.
You figure that out.
Um, ultimately we don't think it should exist.
This is a product project.
Yeah.
We don't have like, can't point out we don't have this anywhere else.
Um, and the reality is, like you said, it is very difficult to deploy this on anywhere
but for sale and get all the, all the features that, that work out of the box.
Anyone denying that is just flat out wrong.
Like they're not either they're like doing a very simplified deployment of next year or
they work at Vercel and they just continue to say this, even though it's not true.
Um, we have thousands of deployments on this for that reason, like hard to deny that.
Yep.
But this, this is like, you, you don't, you can't really, this is a situation.
And I think can also make this point there.
This isn't like a moral criticism.
It's just an accurate analysis of the structure.
Uh, they are a host and they have a public open source framework.
Uh, they can solve a lot of problems that people run into by adding features in their
hosting platform.
So they tend to build featured in the next JS that are like dependent on features of
their hosting platform.
That's just the incentive.
That's just a structure.
Yep.
That's just the integration I would be doing the exact same thing.
Uh, most people would.
It is just the way it works.
Uh, and it's, there's a lot of benefits to that.
And that when you use these two things together, it is very beautiful and it comes together
nicely.
Um, but there is a downside, which if you can't use these things together, you don't want
to use them together.
It's a much worse experience than any of the other frameworks.
I, it never, the, the apple parallel here never hit me that it's like apple being the
like integrated hardware and software.
It's like you need one with the other, it's kind of, it's that too, right?
Like they, they have the apple at like the apple events and they draw a lot of like apple
comparisons when they do like today and actually ask conf, uh, and their style, their, their
brand guidelines, all that stuff, just very apple like, but this is like a very apple
thing too, which is like, if you're going to have our phone, you're also going to run
our software.
You're also going to use our cloud services.
Like it's all integrated and it's a nice experience.
But yeah, don't try to take your phone and run something else on it or your Mac and run
something else.
Like, yeah, that's, it's all very similar.
Sorry.
Yeah, which is like, I think that makes a lot of sense in a consumer product, uh, where
you can really narrow a use case in the scope for developer product where like people have
all kinds of configurations, all kinds of situations, like, uh, it needs to integrate
with a million other things.
Yeah.
That set up, I don't think really makes sense.
And I, I would even say that I, I acknowledge it comes together pretty well.
I don't think it comes together as well as an apple products.
No, right.
I think it's like it comes together.
Okay.
But it's not worth, it doesn't come together well now for I'm like, okay, it's worth these
other things to give up those trade offs, what if, what if Vercel is a consumer product?
Well, I was just thinking in some ways, yeah, well, I was just thinking how like I'm going
to redo my personal site and I'll probably just put it on Vercel.
And that's like the use case where I'm like, that makes sense on Vercel.
I don't really need to like tinker with it.
It's just like a simple page.
And I don't want to think about like analytics and all that.
I can just use Vercel analytics.
Like there are use cases where it just makes sense for me, but it's the like consumer use
cases of mine where I'm just like a person, not like representing a company.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
No, I mean, I think that is like an unparalleled use case.
Like I can't argue that you should use anything else in that case.
But like a startup and like the idea of deploying my startup software on Vercel is just laughable.
Like I would never, and there's just so many reasons why.
Yeah.
I would say like philosophically, like the type of company I'm trying to build is in
a lot of ways like the opposite of the way that Vercel operates.
So there's a lot of like, for me, when I see them doing certain things, I'm like, I would
try to do the exact opposite.
Granted, the way they're building stuff is the way that every successful enterprise task
company has been ever built in the last couple of years, but they're not doing anything like
obviously wrong.
But when I see like their sales approach, their sales teams, like the emails that people
show us from like what they get from Vercel, I'm just like, this to me, this is not the
point of being a tech company, it's a very traditional and like salesy and just high
touch.
It's not the type of company I want to build.
So, and I don't think that makes people happy.
I don't think it makes your customers, customers happy.
Yeah.
I think a lot of developers that talk about Vercel on Twitter and elsewhere, never get
to that point.
Like they never have to approach the enterprise sales part.
They just use it for free and like Vercel's great.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I don't know what the funnel looks like, how those those convert into these big enterprise
deals.
But I mean, I know it happened.
Yeah.
I mean, we get messers from people all the time being like, oh yeah, we're paying like
their standard, their public pricing is based off of seats.
They're like, oh yeah, we have like, you know, five developers that work on this, $20 or
$20, we're paying about a month, and then we got an email saying, oh actually, we need
to be bumped up to like $6,000 a month.
It's like, oh, it's like crazy jumps like that because they go past some kind of thresholds
wherever sales are okay, you're out of our like generous bandwidth and like compute tier.
And the actual cost when you, when you get, when you add those up, it's crazy expensive.
It's literally, it's, I think on a bandwidth, it's like a 10x markup.
Yeah.
We've seen these numbers before.
I think five to 10x across the board on, on all the raw resources, which I'm not fundamentally
opposed to if something is delivering a lot of value, I'm so happy to pay for it.
I think most people are like overly conservative and trying to like cut costs here and there
and like they lose a bunch of other things.
So the point is just hosting and it's just like a small portion of your product.
Yeah.
It's just, I don't know.
I like, I don't have a lot of faith in that setup.
I think hosting is like a goody business to begin.
Yeah.
And I think Kent points out that he, he's also worried about the fact that they're not profitable
and you should worry about those things.
And yeah.
And the other thing I want to say is what I liked about this article is there's actually
no technical details in there.
Really, they're not comparing like direct APIs, like capabilities or anything.
All right.
But this is the stuff that you really need to consider when you're like in a moral leadership
position on like whether you're starting a company or you're making a bigger decision.
You're picking your vendor, you're picking the things you want to bet on and you need
to understand like their business model, their culture, how they operate.
Like I don't want a vendor that like is building a giant sales team because I know how that
gets used on me and I don't like those relationships.
So I like avoid companies like that.
Yeah.
So you need to think about a lot of stuff outside of just the literal framework or the code
that you have to write.
Yeah.
I think the all of that stuff's probably more important.
The interesting thing is interesting that like you don't hear a lot of people complain
about Vercel pricing in our circles.
Really?
Like you're about a lot of time.
Oh, do you hear it all the time?
Okay.
Maybe.
Well, yeah, I guess your customers like people who come to I get like I get like private
conversations about those that yeah, I feel like the public discourse around Vercel is
not that it's expensive and like you get it you get in trouble if you say, if you put
any of that stuff publicly, maybe that's what it is.
Yeah.
I'd say like AWS is expensive, which is funny because it like Vercel doesn't have that.
Cause they have.
That would have come like a zero engagement policy with everyone saying anything publicly,
which I'm taking advantage of a lot.
Yes.
You will say it's almost your whole persona.
Yeah.
But Vercel is not like that.
They like you if you like saying this stuff publicly, like you it creates a problem for
you.
Yeah.
I really don't hear about it in private.
Okay.
So next year, I says eating react.
So the gist of this is, you know, with a lot of the react team leaving meta and joining
Vercel, there's like more influence than ever on Vercel's goals and react goals.
Kent says, even when they were part of meta, he wasn't a big fan of it.
I think it was for him, the ideal model would be like a foundation model.
I agree with the foundation model for things that end up being low level open source tools.
So I think react at this point, it's a low level tool.
A lot of stuff gets built on top of it.
Programming languages, things like Terraform, like I believe that those make sense as a foundation
model where those are going to open foundation with a bunch of different companies that might
compete with each other supporting it.
I think that's like the healthiest setup.
So he mentions that here and he is worried that they're kind of going the opposite direction.
The benefit of them being at meta is meta and this is like there's pros and cons here.
It was a side project for meta at the end of the day.
They used it internally.
They built all their stuff on it, which is good because they're tied to it, they're committed
to it.
But they don't need it to be anything besides a tool that solves their problems and a bigger
ecosystem is looking higher out of, yep, they don't need to like build a direct business
off of react.
And I think there's pros and cons there.
So obviously moving into Versa, which is an unprofitable startup that's in hyper growth
phase, raised a lot of money, you're in a very different environment than you were in
meta.
If you're someone working on a react that you now have stuff like deadlines, you need to
like coordinate with countries, you need to like do all this stuff and you need to line
up with the company's vision.
It is a very different situation.
And I wouldn't be surprised if honestly the team isn't necessarily adapting super well
to that.
It is a new constraint that they haven't had since the beginning.
Yep.
So yeah, I think I mentioned that this does worry him a little bit.
He also mentions that he feels the collaboration has gone down and I think he quotes Ryan Florence
has mentioned this.
It seems like he's like debugging issues and like posting stuff, not in like a negative
and positive way publicly, more like it feels like he's running into stuff that given someone
like him building a framework on top of react with his level of region influence, he should
have like more direct lines of communication, like understand a lot of this stuff ahead
of time.
I definitely feel that the thing I met someone asked me earlier today, you know, where do
you see like the lack of collaboration?
Like what does that mean?
Like where do you guys see that?
With every other framework, we have direct lines to the people that are building it.
We can't we have influence over, Hey, here are some good features you can add that would
help deployment and they've been implemented and added, we get told ahead of time of features
that they're going to release so that we can prep our stuff, very standard open source
collaboration.
Yeah.
Obviously don't have that with next year's at all, it's a complete reverse engineering
effort every time.
So again, quite different from everything else.
It's like more open source.
Yeah.
I guess, are there any other companies with associate with these frameworks that have
similar incentives or models and they just work around it or is versatile unique with
their, their business model?
I think they're unique in that they're successful.
I think everyone else has tried this has been a successful is my.
So like, yeah, a lot of their issues are like, they're uniquely successful, you have to give
them credit for.
Yeah.
I'm trying to think like, who else does the open source framework, but paid?
I mean, you've had failures, right?
Like Gatsby was a big one.
Yeah.
So they were, so that brings up Netlify, which doesn't have a framework, but they kind of
the same model, business model is for sell, right?
Yeah.
I mean, Netlify is also, I mean, I don't really understand Netlify that well.
They have to be a next year's host because next year's is hugely successful.
But it's always, always me an uphill battle for them.
Yeah.
They have to like build so much around it that's unrelated to next year's for people to be
the end to Netlify your reason.
Yeah.
It's tough.
And they, and Ryan Carniotto works there, but they haven't taken this like direct head
to head battle of China.
I feel like he's working there technically, but you never, it's not like a big part of
their brand at all or their efforts.
You look at next year's in Versailles, like next year's in Versailles, like one thing.
Uh-huh.
And they unify everything and they like really push both those things forward together.
Netlify doesn't seem to be doing that for whatever reason.
Yeah, Gatsby is the other example, but they never figured out the business part of things.
And, and they ended up, you know, getting acquired by Netlify.
Yep.
I don't remember too many others, but yeah, I mean, it's possible this model just doesn't
work or entirely make sense.
I mean, I guess remix got acquired, same thing, like they didn't ever have to get to the point
of having a hosting business.
Yeah.
And I think Ryan talks about all the time now.
He's in such a better headspace being able to really think about super long-term goals
for remix without, like he was saying, like if they didn't get acquired right now, they
would be working on a paid product as opposed to working on remakes, which I feel because
we're in that same situation.
We have an open source framework and a paid product and that split is, uh, is difficult.
We're okay with it.
Like we're like, we're not, I think our team, I think a certain people are like true open
source people at heart.
I don't think our team is necessarily that, like our community who runs our projects better
than we do.
We really are our forte.
I wasn't going to say anything, but that's not, I'm not even exaggerating the other day.
I went to the open next homepage and I was like, wait, when did this get so good?
Like they like deployed a whole new docs thing.
It's like so well run.
Like they have, they're so on top of all the issues, like they got all the integrations
going.
Like it's a, it's a well run.
Like Jay was saying that today.
Like I think we need to learn something from, yeah, from my community.
So, like we're more like, you know, traditional like startup be like build a product people.
But for someone like Ryan who's like very good open source, like I think that's a much
better setup.
Yeah.
All right.
Experimenting on my users.
Yeah.
So this is another thing.
Again, this is, this is definitely like a, to me, I feel like this is a, it's such a
good judgment thing.
It's hard to articulate like, this is exactly what you should do.
And for Kent's level of expectation of the amount of stability a framework should give
you, he feels like next year's is not meeting that next year's will push back and say no,
everything we're doing is a hundred percent backwards compatible.
It's true.
Like I think Guillermo tweeted the other day that the first screenshot that they put up
of next year's like that code literally still works.
So backwards compatibility, you can't really argue they are there doing that.
But there is a lot of change and the change represents innovation like things that are
trying to invade and push forward.
Yeah.
And it does get marketed very, in a way where people feel like they need to jump to it right
away.
And they'll try to jump to it.
Things won't work.
Things will kind of be broken.
We see it with every single patch update change a bunch of stuff breaks and we have to trace
it down.
Um, again, that's just a fact like you can draw whatever opinion you want from that.
But the fact is it does break a lot more than other stuff that pain you can draw from that
is it's worth it because you like the direction they're pushing in and you do need to break
things to get there.
Otherwise you get stuck.
I think we definitely are more on the side of breaking stuff just because we're a little
bit earlier on than, um, then like, you know, kind of more stable frameworks.
So I understand that, but I also understand that like for as big as they are for how many
companies built on top of them, this is just like a pain.
And he talks, doesn't he talk in this section about the, uh, just all the react features
that have been used in the last year releases of next year's that aren't stable.
Yeah, there's a whole debate around that canary thing where like react as a canary version,
but they're definitely so canary means it's ready for frameworks to adopt.
Uh, it's a very kind of confusing situation.
I don't, to me, it's not, I don't like want to get into like those details.
For me, it's really about what's it feel like?
What do people feel like?
Does it feel like it's good cheese?
I feel like it's buggy.
Uh, does it feel like it's slow?
I mean, a lot of people do say that.
So for sure, on the RSC side, like the app directory stuff, the people, when the first
version that made that available, everyone started using it and was like, the dead server
is atrocious and they've improved a lot, but I still see people talking about how slow
and painful it is.
So how much of this is like next year's comp and like for cell comp or whatever, they have
like all these big tent pole, you know, conference things.
And it feels like stuff's going to be shipped on that date regardless of where it's at.
It's like Turbopack, the first announcement of Turbopack was like, you knew they just
had to announce it, but it was like, it's alpha.
Actually, you can't use it.
Actually don't use it, please.
But there's kind of this like marketing driven development that I guess that's just comes
with the success.
They've got a huge following and these huge marketing events that just comes with it,
I guess, as I was saying earlier, like it's a very different environment for people that
were at meta to now be in this environment where they need to like do all this coordination
and get some out on time and all that.
Well, this has been reading the tell when to come, what's the refactoring UI?
I think we've read that.
I own it.
Every time of it.
It's in your deep collection of, I think you own any everything, you probably own all
the content.
I mostly own all of the things.
Yeah.
All of the things people make.
If you like are considering making a course, you should just make it really expensive because
I'm at least going to buy it and you'll at least make that sale and then you can kind
of go from there.
Just make it look really good.
Yeah.
And you're probably even tweet like this is great.
Yeah, probably.
I mean, refactoring UI, the bits I read were really good.
Yeah.
I think I even use it to like reference like look up specific things.
It's a great book that it's like, it's hard to remember all the concepts in it.
It's something you have to constantly reference every like year or so.
Yeah.
She's been reading it and one of her big takeaways was she spends a lot of time.
She's reflecting on her own way of doing things.
She spent a lot of time figuring out how to get work done.
Like what is a process to get work done?
But she never really looked at it as how do I get quality work done?
It was more around like we, there's all this stuff to do, what process do I have to make
sure all gets done like never thought about like, okay, but what's the process actually
make sure that that stuff turns out well.
And oftentimes these two things are entirely in conflict.
Like the thing that makes you the most productive and predictable and and you can estimate and
you can deliver on time is very different from what you need to do to deliver quality
work.
That's kind of what is going on there like they are now in an environment where they
need to make sure work gets done.
Very different than they can't make the decision that you know what, we need another year on
this before we ask to tell anyone before we even know that this turbo pack is a viable
thing.
Of course not.
You can't do that.
Like a stage are impossible.
Yep.
So they're experimenting.
It's not a good point.
So too much magic.
Okay too much magic.
I think we're all going to resonate with this.
This is another thing.
Again, it's like a sense of judgment and you know, Kent is very experienced.
He's seen a lot of code bases with a lot of people.
So you kind of have to acknowledge his level of judgment here.
He's not someone that's just like just doing this for a couple of years.
When people say too much magic and they have a lot of experience, I think it does come
with like a lot of weight.
We all like some amount of magic.
We all like not having to do tedious work, but there's some like invisible magical threshold
that'll cross over where we'll be like, okay, now it's too much.
Now I'm scared of it.
Now I'm worried what can happen.
Yep.
And he points to the fetch API where they patched.
They do a global patch in the fetch API.
And I think to a lot of people, this feels like focusing on some technicality of like
a while you're like obsessing over this like one thing that they did just because it's
technically weird.
I acknowledge a lot of things that are technically weird can actually be fine in practice.
But the philosophy around it feels off.
Yeah.
Right.
It feels like is this feature so, so compelling that it's worth crossing this line here?
Yeah.
And that's just there to add automatic caching, which again, guess where automatic caching
works best in in verse L it doesn't work too great anywhere else unless you like really
engineer for it.
Yeah.
So do you feel like that with like some of the magic stuff like you like the magic like
kind of does it make you feel weird?
I guess there's probably parts of it that I like and I don't realize, oh, yeah, that
is, that is a lot of magic.
I think it ties into that point earlier that we talked about like not understanding how
it works.
It bothers me when I don't understand how this stuff is even deployed, like what does
the infrastructure look like?
Like if I can't understand how all these features are actually implemented, then I feel bad
using it.
So I think that's the magic stuff for me.
Yeah.
Like I wouldn't have even thought of a global fetch as a magical thing.
I think of that as like a, yeah, a philosophical thing that bothers me that they would think
that's a good idea.
I'm sure that if we pulled up specific features of next year's in verse L I could, I could
probably better articulate the magic I don't like.
Yeah.
And I like definitely what acknowledged that this is a lot of it is emotional, but I don't
think that discounts it like it feels weird.
It's just got a feeling like you don't, if you feels like you don't really get what's
going on that just is a gut feel.
I can't rationally say that as good or bad, but you got to listen to those things because
there's like some wisdom there is maybe not super easy to articulate.
Do you think they view though the magic as like that's a feature?
I mean, like look at all this that is done for you.
Is that a philosophy that some people embrace and as developers, they like it?
Yeah, I think as someone building, I think I can relate to their point of view a little
bit because there's some, I see problems all the time and I see like people making the
same mistakes or see people doing tedious things and I want to solve it for them.
And sometimes I can like, yeah, lean towards like doing really aggressive kind of crazy
things to make it so someone never runs into this issue.
Yep.
So that pushes there because that's what the innovation is like you tried to solve those
problems.
Yep.
I think with this specific case, I'll actually give an example of why this is emotional,
but it should still matter.
So as someone like I was using app router like a few weeks ago, I don't know.
Actually, I said, well, I'm so I would be concerned, I'm not new to it.
Everything is so aggressively cashed by default, they're like very, very aggressive about guessing
that you probably want this to be pre rendered.
And I find that really weird, like you build an endpoint API endpoint request, you like
return some side response because you're just testing.
And it took me a while to realize like why it wasn't actually deploying properly because
next year as looked at my code and they were like, Oh, you don't touch the request object.
Therefore your code's probably entirely deterministic.
Therefore we can probably just build it at generate that build time.
Yeah.
And then like, you know, exactly.
And that's like a very perform wouldn't do that, but it's like so unexpected and it gives
you like a really jarring feeling initially someone, I saw someone reply mentioning this
being like, they return something from their database without touching the request object.
And then all of a sudden their build was trying to talk to their database, which is like in
a VPC and you can't access it.
Yep.
And when stuff that's unexpected happens, like it's just a bad experience.
It doesn't matter whether the thing, the feature makes sense.
If you catch people off guard, there's going to media negative thing there and you're worried
that you're being dragged into like a complexity.
Yeah.
Yep.
100%.
Can I, can I point out a magic thing that I thought of that I do like?
Oh, yes.
Tell me.
I think, I think this is under the umbrella of magic things, like next font.
Mm hmm.
It's a next font.
You just like import Google fonts and it gets rid of layout shift because they like inspect
the font files and calculate for a fallback font.
They calculate all the different, whatever measurements so that when they swap, whatever,
lato, your custom Google font in for like aerial, there's no layout shift that, I guess
that's kind of magic.
Like all that's going on, we just import that font and use it in your style sheet.
But I do, I do like that magic.
It's like stuff I understand, I understand what's happening under the hood and I just
like that they took care of it all for me.
Maybe that's not magic because I actually understand what's going on.
You understand what's going on and it's something you would do every single time.
There's like no reason to ever not have that turned out exactly.
It's just boilerplate.
It's removing all that.
Yeah.
It's not like trying to guess and sometimes it's wrong.
So maybe that's not magic.
I don't think that's what we're talking about.
It is, Matt, but with this stuff, it's like we can't boil it into a bunch of simple rules.
Like there's a feel.
You know it when it feels off.
You know it when it feels good.
The other thing in the section that I found super fascinating is this mood tools thing because
I didn't know about this.
I think I've heard of this.
So Kent points out that in the mood tools days, the mood tools was like, I think I remember
it was like a similar to jQuery, like expanded what JavaScript could do.
But the way it worked is it would override your, like the string prototype.
So it would add functions to strings that weren't actually there, kind of be injected
by the library.
And they added a dot contains feature to a string.
So like figure out whether a string contains a sub string.
Super useful.
Obviously should just be in a native thing.
Yep.
They added it because everyone needs it.
And then when they went to implement dot contains natively in the browser, obviously dot contains
makes sense.
It's like what you think of like string contains.
That's what you would want to name it, but they couldn't name it that because the implementation
was slightly different and it would break all the existing mutual sites out there.
And there were so many of them that this was actually a factor to consider.
And that's why it's called dot includes.
And it is mind blowing to me that like they have to consider this.
It is is crazy that you have to consider this.
Like I never thought of that.
And I can't believe that's what yeah, that that's the reason I thought they just picked
includes because they were like the one was like, Oh yeah, that makes more sense for some
reason.
Those are a weird decision.
But yeah, they were forced into it.
And then the the GitHub issue he links.
It's funny because Sebastian who works on actually us now used to work on move tools and he's
like in that thread talking about like 10 years ago.
That's awesome.
I didn't I didn't catch that.
Okay.
So that's magic complexity.
Getting overly complex.
Yeah.
So this is so you mentioned the server actions, all the weird side effects that they have
to solve now.
The taint API, which we talked about in our last totally real yeah.
And I think this I get this also I get like I totally feel this as well.
It is so complicated and for a specific use case like a like a e-commerce or like a marketing
site like a very specific use case, all the defaults and next and all the complexity is
great because these are all things that those projects should be doing but probably didn't
have the like they don't just have the energy to like cover all these little things.
Yep.
So I can see exactly what they're optimized for.
But the moment you're not on that path, it's just you're just waiting through all these
features that you're turning off or working around.
Yep.
It is a lot.
Yeah.
I have a couple of major versions since I use next JS but I was feeling it then even then
this was before RS was the last version that you like I remember you so consistently built
stuff in next.
Yeah, I did.
I mean it was right before for like two years, I think it was right before the RSC release.
So was that 13?
13.
Okay.
No, no.
RC was 13.
I'm out of use 13.
RCs were released in 13.
Did you use app router?
Did you use all those?
No, that's what I'm saying.
Like I never I never got into the app router.
Everything was pages directory.
Yeah.
Maybe it was just on 12, I guess.
I think so.
And you said you felt it even then that it was kind of getting a little complex.
I thought so.
I mean, I know like it's it's been taken to another level with all the recent stuff.
But I mean, I feel like 10, 11, 12, they were like pretty big features introduced in every
release.
Maybe there were like more things that we just take for granted now or just fundamental
things, image optimization and all that stuff.
Maybe it's just like you need that stuff.
But I mean, I still feel like having just gotten into Astro in the last year and built
something pretty large with Astro.
I feel like this.
It's a lot simpler.
The next year.
I don't know.
It's younger.
So I guess it makes sense.
But yeah.
And I think every it's so hard to prevent something from getting big and bloated, because you're
always trying to innovate and you're always trying to push stuff and you're always working
around being backwards compatible.
Yeah, I am surprised at how complicated it is because I really don't feel like I need
a lot of those things.
Like I've never needed it.
I still build stuff without it.
I see people building stuff and other frameworks without a lot of those things and they still
come out great.
So again, a little bit of a judgment call here.
I think for some people, they see all these features and they're like, yes, like these
are things that I need turned on.
I would have to build them manually otherwise.
But to me, it has to be like a narrow, somewhat of a narrow set of people.
Yeah.
And he compares the remix saying like the goal for remix is to reduce API footprint as opposed
to increase.
But a lot more conservative with adding functionality and features.
Wait, what the hell is the ability to manage stability twice?
Oh, experimenting on my users.
I guess that's different.
So he mentions.
Yeah, it's a little different.
Yeah.
He has another section on stability here.
I think we kind of talked about this stuff as part of the even if he didn't as part of
the.
No, yeah, the previous section.
Experimenting on me.
There's nothing super new here.
Yeah.
I think the main thing here is react router in a lot of ways is kind of like a precursor
to remix and there is a migration path from react router to remix and that that migration
path will continue to be more and more clear as remakes implements RSCs.
I think that's like the most interesting angle I see for remix where there's a lot of sites
using react router and yeah, pitching switching to next.js was all with all these heavy features
versus versus switching to remix, which feels like more like an incremental step.
Yeah.
So I'm skeptical that a lot of people are going to be choosing next in that situation,
but yeah, we'll see capability capability.
Yeah.
He's talking about like why isn't this a comparison of features?
But again, I think people talk about that to death like features and technical things.
But like you said, these are the type of things that probably not mattering more like philosophy
in the direction they're going and whether it.
Whether it lines up.
Yeah.
Not like the ecommerce demo and how they were able to get a better user experience with less
code with remix and actually as updated, I think they invented app router to like copy
all those features.
Yeah.
Which is funny.
Which is fine.
Like you should copy your competitors features, but you also got to give credit to the fact
that remix got there first.
So presumably they might get to the next good idea first as well.
Oh, out of order streaming.
Sorry.
I just I didn't notice that the first time I read this article.
Yeah.
And I think I saw some mention of it.
Michael posted today that he feels like all of RSCs like all the features you get from
RSCs could have been implemented in like a much stupider, simpler approach, like the headline
feature that you care about like streaming and out of order streaming and all those.
You, like I said, when you're picking stuff to build on, you are making bets.
It's not any different than investing in a startup.
You bet on what they're doing, how they're doing it, the people that are working on it.
And I will say that the remix team, you have to get them a lot of credit for getting to
some of these ideas first.
Yeah.
We'll see where it goes from there.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I was not listening because the X in the conclusion, that's your prerogative and I welcome
you to share your opinions on my take on X, YouTube, Twitch, et cetera.
You see this?
Yeah.
Copy it in your clipboard.
Okay.
And then paste it like in your browser address bar.
But you didn't know this.
They just picked a, they just picked a Unicode thing.
It's not a custom logo.
That's a Unicode character.
Yeah.
Everyone was making fun of them for it.
But it's funny because like, Oh, I commend them for it in some ways because I would never
be able to do that.
I would never be able to like emotionally ship that a co-character.
But there's something so pragmatic about it.
I have to like, I didn't know this.
You were just, yeah, you're just talking on this logo and it's a Unicode character.
I mean, I get that the grungy thing.
Yeah.
I agree on that.
But I mean, I don't like the way it looks.
But yeah, like there is some, how did I just learn this?
There is like a mindset to shipping a Unicode character as your logo that we can definitely
learn from to some because wild.
Yeah.
And I guess kit new, I must be living under a rock.
Huh.
I just, when I pasted it in the dress bar, I was like, is this going to paste an X?
Did he somehow like make the X render like that?
Like, what is this?
I just didn't expect it to like be able to select the text.
And then it was the logo and my jaw dropped.
I don't know if you saw it, but okay.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Well, I guess that's kind of a cool feature because they're, they're domain, can this
just be their domain name?
Can they just be?
Could it?
Can you just use a Unicode character?
There's like the emoji domain thing.
Have you seen those?
Yeah.
Those are cool.
But like, you can't type this in so I guess it wouldn't be.
No, I guess not.
Hang on.
What happens if you go to?
Oh, it works.
It works.
Like that.com works.
Oh my God.
It works.
What?
How did it do that?
Wait, hang on.
We're going to, we're going to dig into this.
Let's open up the terminal.
Yeah.
What do the redirects look like?
This is wild.
Dig X.com.
It resolves DNS curl dash V. Yeah, 302 to Twitter, which is a tenant 302 to wow.
So you can, you can use Unicode characters for .com.
Sorry.
I'm so quiet.
That's impressive.
That is so impressive.
But are there any, are there any of these single Unicode domains that aren't taken?
Like it must be all taken or not.
The problem is people can't type them in.
That's, that's a real issue.
Why can't you type them in?
What do you mean?
Like if that was your only domain site, how would you, how would I type this X in without
copying it from somewhere?
Yeah.
You just had to copy it.
I feel like, isn't there like a code like it's like pull down something?
I mean, some people probably don't know how to do that.
I know there's a way and I don't know if it works on Linux.
So yeah, I can't get over it like Google it every time.
Now I'm heading straight over to name cheap.
Oh my God.
Cole, you said it domains for you to buy.
Oh, no.
Oh, this is bad.
Let's see.
Or not.
Sorry.
I use domainer.
I like domainer.
They don't sell domains, but their searching thing is so good.
Do you spell it like it sounds?
Domain of an R. Yeah.
DomainR.com.
Oh, wait.
If I type, I wonder if this X just turns into like a normal X?
I think it does because even in my, like in my dev tools, I don't see that listed as
a request.
I just see X.com redirect to Twitter.
Okay.
So maybe somehow it's, it reduces to a normal X.
That's an X.
That's wild.
I'm so confused.
Okay.
Sorry.
Back on track.
Okay.
So conclusion time here.
I wanted to share why I'm recommending and teaching remakes.
I love it.
Okay.
So he concludes.
They're obviously both capable frameworks.
He's listed why he's betting on this one and he points out that his class is so useful
even if you're still building on next year's, but I think lines up with the idea that remakes
is closer to like web fundamentals and, yeah, and standards, choosing a teach remakes of
a cookie to take on any challenge you face in full stack web.
So I think it's a great article.
I don't think I saw anyone really have like a negative reaction besides those people that
were that didn't read it.
Yeah.
No, I thought it was, I think it articulates pretty much everything all like my feelings
and thoughts around, around next and kind of where it's gotten to.
Yeah.
And way better than I could have ever.
articulated.
He helped me realize the things I don't like about next.
The question is, what is his image?
This is definitely AI generated.
Wait, what?
What image?
The title.
The title of the why I want you is this is like abstract art.
Are we supposed to read something into his is next the red and remixes of blues or something
hidden in there?
Do you see like a girl in the top right with like headphones on and three eyes and her
arms?
I see that.
She's dancing.
Those old iPod commercials kind of.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, now we got to know, Kent, if you could let us know if there's something hidden in
this abstract art at the top, that would be helpful.
I wonder if it is AI generated.
I feel like I just assumed it was, but I actually don't think it looks exactly like
AI generated stuff.
Mm.
You know how they all have that like field to them?
Yeah.
This is not screwing me that to me.
So I'm looking through his other articles, like his, all his little cover art, the kind
of, yeah, nice mix of things, a lot of abstract.
I like, man, everyone that does a space theme, I feel like it always just comes out so cool.
Like the, what does full stack mean for Epic Web that article?
I mean, Epic Web.dev is just all space themed, right?
Oh, it is.
Yeah.
Like Ashrow stuff.
Also, like, I feel like you have so many.
I love it.
And you pick a space theme.
Yeah.
The Ashrow one is just to get to keep on giving.
It seems like they keep discovering new like, yeah, goofy things that they can introduce
into the brand that fit.
Yeah.
That's the thing that I was trying to listen about, like when you pick a name for a company,
you also kind of want to pick something you can play with in a million ways, which is kind
of was hard to do.
But if you do pick that, it makes every single thing you ship a lot easier because you're
constrained to like a certain theme, but it's also very flexible.
Good call.
All right.
That's the article.
Yeah.
For cell comp.
Wait, is it for cell comp for next comp?
Next.
They still have for cell comp.
I feel like that is a thing, but is that was that a thing?
I thought it was.
Maybe not.
Oh, so they do they do two a year?
I don't see anything for for cell comp.
So it's always next time wrong to make that up.
I feel like that used to be a thing on the day of next comp.
We read an article about why we did.
I wonder if you can't timed it for that reason.
Can't let us know.
Did you write the article knowing that next jazz comp was?
Was this a calculated strike?
It's just a heart of next day as on their most revered day.
I do wish I was going.
It's such FOMO.
I hate FOMO.
Can I just add him?
I had so much.
I know.
I had so much FOMO at at the Twitch con.
I was at Twitch con and I had FOMO.
Why is that?
Describe that more.
What do you have FOMO for?
Well, it's just like you want to make sure you're doing the right thing.
You're in the right place at the right time with the right people and like just like
can't just enjoy it.
It's like min maxing everything about it because there's a lot of things you could do when
you get there.
And it's like, I don't know.
I don't like it.
How do you get rid of it?
I want no FOMO over anything in the tech industry.
Yeah.
I talk about this other day, but as stupid as it sounds, like I do get inspired by my
dog a lot.
Like sometimes I see the way he lives life and I'm just like, there's something going
to be learned here.
Just so in the moment all the time.
Yeah.
My kids are like, that's kind of what you're talking about.
Oh, yeah.
Exactly.
So he's never like, I could be doing this other thing, which could be better.
Yeah.
Right.
And that's the rules that you're doing.
Exactly.
Okay.
But if I have a goal this year, it's to not have any FOMO.
That's it because you don't want other things.
No, no, no, I might go to nothing, but I want to just not care.
FOMO is always going to be a thing.
But I think having FOMO at Twitch con, no, no, I'm getting rid of it.
That's unhealthy.
No, just like I can see how that's maybe annoying.
FOMO's okay.
If you see your friends hanging out and having fun, like, and you're not there, it's okay.
That's okay to fear missing out because you are missing out.
It's not really a fear.
We know you are missing out.
Yeah.
I didn't have FOMO at all with Twitch con.
It looked so bad and not fun and terrible.
It was so fun.
You missed it.
It was so great.
I saw it.
It's fun.
I got to say, to be completely honest, and a lot of the pictures that you guys took, the
background looked like shit.
I don't know what was going on.
Like, there was a picture of that milky scent of you and him.
They all these like shitty streamers.
But like you were in some like crappy, like, office and like-
Wait, there was a picture of me and milky?
They put like streamers on like just like half-assed streamers on the ceiling behind
you.
I didn't even know there was a picture of me and milky out there.
Milky scent.
I really didn't take any pictures.
He sent it to me.
It was the two of you.
You probably don't remember because you were wasted.
Was I?
Was it that night?
I only did it one night.
Did it?
The thing that you do have to go one night?
I only had an alcohol on one night.
Okay.
I just sent you the picture.
On this board.
Look at it.
And do you get what I mean?
Oh, wow.
That does look awful.
Where is that?
Just look at the background.
Like it just looks so crappy.
All right.
That is a restaurant.
That's at this taco place and they're probably just decorating for Halloween.
That's not TwitchCon.
Wait, wait, hang on.
This is a taco place?
Why does it look like a corporate office?
I think that's a taco place.
I'm pretty sure.
I feel like that's the only place we ever went to eat.
They all love these tacos and we just kept going.
Did you have those elkordo?
Was there for you there?
And then coconut water the next time because I didn't want fries again.
Yeah.
There were no tacos for me.
When you come to Miami, I told you we have that restaurant saved for you.
So I am definitely coming to Miami.
Yeah.
So you mentioned on Twitter.
I mean, I'm coming for Miami, for React Miami.
Yeah.
And there might be another reason.
I feel like there's another thing that we might go because of family.
There's something in Miami.
I can't remember.
Like a reunion.
No.
What do you mean?
My family look like they're from Miami.
I thought you guys are doing a reunion in like a destination.
No.
My family.
What?
Why are you saying something?
You just said you might go to Miami for family.
I have no idea what to make of that.
No.
Oh, I'm sorry.
For my family.
Like my wife and my boys.
Like something we wanted to go to.
That's in Miami.
I can't remember what it is.
There's a jiu-jitsu tournament there.
The Miami Open.
We'll see.
I'll be in Miami at some point.
Is it the F1 race?
No.
There's an F1 race in Miami?
Yeah.
It was a...
So Miami and Vegas were the two big additions?
Yeah.
I was going to say Vegas was a mess because of all the F1.
I know.
I'm so jealous of all the people going to the Vegas F1 race.
Oh, going to the race.
I thought you meant I'm going to Vegas before the race and having to deal with the traffic.
No, I was like, you would be jealous of that.
You're so drawn to like disasters.
I'm drawn to being entertained by other people feeling awkward.
Yeah.
Uncomfortable or awkward.
What...
You're like an F1 fan?
Did I know this?
You watched it?
I don't know.
I'm more lately.
I haven't been super into it, but I love F1 in general.
I used to be super into it.
Like I said, we talked about the ice dish simulators and all that, but I've never been
to a race.
Oh, right.
I will go to the Miami one eventually.
You had it because they were so expensive.
Some of these have like 5,000 or minimum for seats and stands.
Vegas one must be insane.
I wouldn't be surprised if it's the most expensive sporting event of all time because
one, it's in Vegas, two, it's F1.
F1 is already like a rich sport, like you show up at your yachts, like type of situation.
Then you have all the hotels that are like lined up on the strip and some of the rooms
have like views of the race.
Like that is going to be crazy.
Crazy, crazy.
Yeah.
That's wild.
I don't want to be there for that one.
It's going to like a couple of weeks, right?
It's really soon.
Do we have anything else to talk about?
I don't think so.
Okay.
I was just reading a message that I thought might be pertinent to this very episode from
our editor in chief, Chris.
Oh, are we in trouble?
No.
He's just pointing out, did you know you can stream to Twitter from Riverside, straight
from Riverside?
Oh, you can.
That's what he said.
Do we do that?
I just saw a message from trash on Twitter.
Hi, trash.
What did trash say?
He said, you can't afford a race.
Have you not met trash from person?
No.
I bet you're feeling some some FOMO right now.
From me, trash in person cares about that.
When you put it that way, I thought you should have FOMO because I still haven't met him
for in person.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
situation.
No.
Trash is good people.
Good times.
I don't know.
Is he as small as I say?
He is.
Oh, how did I already know he was small?
I wasn't like taken aback by your size, trash.
I just assumed you were small, but I don't know why I assumed that.
Did I say that?
Everyone talks about it constantly and people let me in with him and I find that right.
I'm not tall.
So I'm very.
I'm not small.
Oh, I told trash.
Oh, that's so funny.
Yeah.
Oh, he told you.
I told trash that you didn't come and I needed a conference buddy when you were about his size.
Oh, yeah.
This is your fault.
Oh, sorry, God, it's funny.
You're five, ten or five, eight, ten, ten, five, ten.
Yeah.
Five, ten, five, eight.
Like that's a noticeable difference.
Oh, wait.
Which one are you?
You're five, eight.
You are five, ten.
Yes.
Okay.
I thought I just gave you a couple.
I wouldn't be this confident if I was five, eight.
If you're five, eight.
I don't know.
Some people snout would be different.
Sometimes the smaller, the more confident, like a small dog, you know, like a chihuahua.
Oh, yeah.
That's true.
Yeah.
All right.
We really should go because this is getting boring even for me.
See you next.
Yeah.